1. Purpose
The objective is to provide information to all the employees about the leaves and
holidays followed in UPL India. Employees need adequate time to celebrate festival
holidays, rest and recuperate and spend quality time with family and friends. This policy
is effective from 1st October 2020.
2. Scope
All permanent employees, trainees, will be covered by this leave policy except the
manufacturing employees in “worker” category with specific employment conditions.
All new joiners will be covered from the date of joining.
3. Process Description
For all leave calculations, calendar year will be from 1 January to 31 December.
New joiners leave eligibilities will be prorated till December 31st, from the date of
joining.
Leaves will be calculated on working days only and will not include intervening weekly
offs and holidays.
4. Types of Holidays & Leaves:
1. National & Festival Holidays
2. Privilege Leave
3. Casual Leave
4. Sick Leave
5. Maternity Leave
6. Paternity Leave
4.1 National and Festival Holidays:
 All offices / plants / labs / field stations etc., will observe 3 national holidays viz:
26th January, 15th August & 2nd October.
 UPL will follow the statutory holidays including the above three national holidays per
calendar year. The list of festival holidays will be in line with the local festivals of the
respective state / location and may vary from state to state depending on the culture and
other social sentiments.
 The actual holiday list for the following year will be published annually by December 15th
of the previous calendar year.
4.2 Privilege Leave:
Eligibility: 21 working days in a year.
Accumulation: Maximum 60 days for new hires joining on or after 1st Oct 2020.
Employees who have joined on or before 30th September 2020, can
accumulate the leaves upto 120 Days if aged below 50 years and can
accumulate the leaves upto 240 Days if aged above 50 years.
PL will be credited to the employees leave account on 31st December
every year.
In order to rest and recuperate, all employees will have 21 working days of privilege leave
in a calendar year. It is expected that employees take their privilege leave and spend some
quality time with family and friends or to develop a hobby or just to rest and relax.
There is no leave encashment available for unutilized or lapsed leave except when employee
separates due to resignation, termination of employment, superannuation, or demise of an
employee.
The employee has to avail a minimum of four (4) days of Privilege Leave in the year, for
which L.T.A. is claimed. The employee must be on approved privilege leave of a minimum of
four days or longer. Sundays & Holidays falling within this period of four days shall not be
included as privileged leave.
Guidelines:
1. An employee will be entitled to take PL after the line manager approval.
2. An employee can avail PL not more than thrice in a year, any deviation to this can be
approved by the HRBP Head subject to manager approval.
3. For long leave, which is 7 days and more, the employee must inform at least one month in
advance. Where an employee plans PL up to 7 days, he/she will be required to take approval
at least 15 days in advance.
4. Extensions will not be granted, except in cases of emergencies. If an employee after
proceeding on leave desires an extension thereof, he/she shall make an application in writing
to the company for this purpose.
5. The Management reserves the right to reject or extend the leave at its discretion and without
assigning any reason whatsoever.
6. When an employee takes a PL, weekend and other holidays will not be included while
calculating leave.
7. In the event of the an employee resigning, retrenchment or termination of services by the
company, unutilized privileged leave not exceeding 60 / 120 / 240 days as per his / her
eligibility standing to his/her credit at the time of retirement, resignation, retrenchment or
termination by the company, shall be allowed to be encashed, wherein encashment will be
on monthly Gross Salary for all employees.
8. Trainees will not be entitled to avail PL during the training/probation period as the case
maybe.
An Employee can avail PL upto a maximum of 30 days at a time. (I.e. the period from the date of
taking leave to the end of leave should not exceed 30 days subject to leave balance availability and
mangers approval.
4.3 Casual Leave
Eligibility: 7 casual leaves in a year.
Accumulation: Cannot be accumulated or encashed
Casual Leave can be utilized for a maximum of 3 days at a stretch.
Guidelines:
Casual leave cannot be combined with sick leave or privilege leave.
Casual leave can be used up to a maximum of 3 days, above which it shall be treated as PL or leave
without pay, as the case may be.
Application for casual leave should be made at least 24 hours in advance. In cases of emergency
where an employee is not aware in advance of his/her casual leave requirement, he/she must
inform the line manager, on the first day of his absence, either by email or phone message,
telegram or other appropriate means of his inability to attend work. In such cases the employee
must apply the casual leave in the prescribed online platform immediately on return to work.
4.4 Sick Leave:
Quantum: 9 days per annum
Accumulation: Effective 1st Jan 2021 sick leave will not be accumulated, and neither
be encashed for all existing and new employees.
Guidelines:
Nine days of sick leave is available to employees. If the medical condition needs an
extended leave beyond nine days, the employee can request for the same to the immediate
manager / functional head. The functional head in consultation with the Head HRBP will evaluate
the request and may either approve or disapprove it. In case of sick leave for more than 3 days,
employees have to submit a medical certificate from a certified medical practitioner. However,
your line manager or HR business partner can ask for a leave certificate from the employee in cases
with less than 3 days of sick leave as well. When an employee takes leave on medical grounds,
he/she must inform the line manager, on the first day of his / her absence, either by email or phone
message, telegram or other appropriate means of inability to attend work. In such cases the
employee must apply the sick leave in the prescribed online platform immediately on return to
work.
Any misuse of the sick leave provision will attract disciplinary action and may lead to termination
of an employee.
4.5 Maternity Leave
Eligibility - Total of 26 weeks twice in the service tenure as governed by ‘The Maternity
Benefit Act” & Maternity Benefit (amendment) Bill 2017.
Apart from the standard Maternity leaves mentioned above, women will be
entitled for additional 6 weeks of Maternity leaves.
Accumulation - Not applicable.
Guidelines:
 Existing provisions as per Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 & Maternity Benefit (amendment)
Bill 2017 and ESI Act, 1948 will be continued.
 All women employees are eligible for a total of 32 weeks of maternity leave for 2 surviving
children. The woman employee can proceed on maternity leave up to a maximum of 26
weeks but not more than 8 weeks before the expected delivery date.
 Maternity leave of 12 weeks will be available to mothers giving birth to 3rd surviving child.
 Maternity leave of 12 weeks will be available to mothers adopting a child below the age of
three months as well as to the “commissioning mothers. The commissioning mother has
been defined as biological mother who uses her egg to create an embryo planted in any
other woman.
 In case of illness arising out of pregnancy, leave balance against PL, if any, can be combined
with Maternity leave.
 In case of miscarriage or medical termination of pregnancy for any reason, the number of
days of paid leave will be limited to 45 continuous days from the date of such occurrence.
 For the purposes of Maternity/miscarriage/medical termination of pregnancy intervening
weekends/holidays will be calculated as leave days.
 In case an employee needs to avail Maternity leave / or leave for Medical termination of
pregnancy/ or leave for miscarriage, the request for such leave needs to be forwarded to
immediate supervisor along with supporting medical documents.
 On approval of the leave, the leave details are to be updated along with necessary
documents in the leave management system.
 If such an employee who has been granted Maternity leave is found working in any other
establishment during ones leave period, she shall forfeit her claim for Maternity leave and
warrant disciplinary action.
 If an employee resigns from employment during Maternity leave without resuming duty,
the benefit shall be extended only up to the last day of employment with the Company.
 Any additional leaves used beyond 225 days & the accumulated PL balance will be treated
as Loss of pay.
 During the maternity leave, women employees will be considered as active employees for
performance management process and variable pay outs if any.
4.6 Paternity Leave
Eligibility - 7 working days (excluding holidays & intervening weekends).
Accumulation - Cannot be accumulated or encashed.
Male employees whose spouse has given birth to a baby or is under medical supervision due to
a maternity related emergency or situation can avail paternity leave for 7 working days. Paternity
leave can be availed for upto 2 children only. If an employee already has two children at the time
of joining UPL, he is not entitled to this leave.
5. General rules governing leave
a) Employees should get all their planned leaves approved in advance and notify it to HR
Services through MYUPL leave management application. If it is found that an employee has
not sent the leave application, it tantamount to misconduct and may lead to disciplinary
action.
b) Leave period for all leave type is calendar year, i.e, 1st January to 31st December.
c) New hires will have their leave entitlements pro-rated from the date of hire till 31st
December
d) Any unauthorized leave will result in loss of pay.
e) Note that UPL is currently in the process of launching a digital leave management tool
and hence the above process related to applying leaves may undergo a change.
The same will be communicated along with the launch of the new digital platform.
6. Exception Requests
Exception requests to this policy need to be approved by the Global CHRO.
